A01:2025 Broken Access Control !icon{: style="height:80px;width:80px" align="right"}
 Background. 
Maintaining its position at 1 in the Top Ten, 100% of the applications tested were found to have some form of broken access control. Notable CWEs included are CWE-200: Exposure of Sensitive Information to an Unauthorized Actor , CWE-201: Exposure of Sensitive Information Through Sent Data , CWE-918 Server-Side Request Forgery (SSRF) , and CWE-352: Cross-Site Request Forgery (CSRF) . This category has the highest number of occurrences in the contributed data, and second highest number of related CVEs.
 Score table.
<table 
 <tr 
 <td CWEs Mapped 
 </td 
 <td Max Incidence Rate
 </td 
 <td Avg Incidence Rate
 </td 
 <td Max Coverage
 </td 
 <td Avg Coverage
 </td 
 <td Avg Weighted Exploit
 </td 
 <td Avg Weighted Impact
 </td 
 <td Total Occurrences
 </td 
 <td Total CVEs
 </td 
 </tr 
 <tr 
 <td 40
 </td 
 <td 20.15%
 </td 
 <td 3.74%
 </td 
 <td 100.00%
 </td 
 <td 42.93%
 </td 
 <td 7.04
 </td 
 <td 3.84
 </td 
 <td 1,839,701
 </td 
 <td 32,654
 </td 
 </tr 
</table 
 Description. 
Access control enforces policy such that users cannot act outside of their intended permissions. Failures typically lead to unauthorized information disclosure, modification or destruction of all data, or performing a business function outside the user's limits. Common access control vulnerabilities include:
 Violation of the principle of least privilege, commonly known as deny by default, where access should only be granted for particular capabilities, roles, or users, but is available to anyone.
 Bypassing access control checks by modifying the URL (parameter tampering or force browsing), internal application state, or the HTML page, or by using an attack tool that modifies API requests.
 Permitting viewing or editing someone else's account by providing its unique identifier (insecure direct object references)
 An accessible API with missing access controls for POST, PUT, and DELETE.
 Elevation of privilege. Acting as a user without being logged in or or gaining privileges beyond those expected of the logged in user (e.g. admin access).
 Metadata manipulation, such as replaying or tampering with a JSON Web Token (JWT) access control token, a cookie or hidden field manipulated to elevate privileges, or abusing JWT invalidation.
 CORS misconfiguration allows API access from unauthorized or untrusted origins.
 Force browsing (guessing URLs) to authenticated pages as an unauthenticated user or to privileged pages as a standard user.
 How to prevent. 
Access control is only effective when implemented in trusted server-side code or serverless APIs, where the attacker cannot modify the access control check or metadata.
 Except for public resources, deny by default.
 Implement access control mechanisms once and reuse them throughout the application, including minimizing Cross-Origin Resource Sharing (CORS) usage.
 Model access controls should enforce record ownership rather than allowing users to create, read, update, or delete any record.
 Unique application business limit requirements should be enforced by domain models.
 Disable web server directory listing and ensure file metadata (e.g., .git) and backup files are not present within web roots.
 Log access control failures, alert admins when appropriate (e.g., repeated failures).
 Implement rate limits on API and controller access to minimize the harm from automated attack tooling.
 Stateful session identifiers should be invalidated on the server after logout. Stateless JWT tokens should be short-lived to minimize the window of opportunity for an attacker. For longer-lived JWTs, consider using refresh tokens and following OAuth standards to revoke access.
 Use well-established toolkits or patterns that provide simple, declarative access controls.
Developers and QA staff should include functional access control in their unit and integration tests.
 Example attack scenarios. 
 Scenario 1: The application uses unverified data in an SQL call that is accessing account information:
An attacker can simply modify the browser's 'acct' parameter to send any desired account number. If not correctly verified, the attacker can access any user's account.
 Scenario 2: An attacker simply forces browsers to target URLs. Admin rights are required for access to the admin page.
If an unauthenticated user can access either page, it's a flaw. If a non-admin can access the admin page, this is a flaw.
 Scenario 3: An application puts all of their access control in their front-end. While the attacker cannot get to https://example.com/app/admin getappInfo due to JavaScript code running in the browser, they can simply execute:
from the command line.
 References.
 OWASP Proactive Controls: C1: Implement Access Control
 OWASP Application Security Verification Standard: V8 Authorization
 OWASP Testing Guide: Authorization Testing
 OWASP Cheat Sheet: Authorization
 PortSwigger: Exploiting CORS misconfiguration
 OAuth: Revoking Access
 List of Mapped CWEs
 CWE-22 Improper Limitation of a Pathname to a Restricted Directory ('Path Traversal')
 CWE-23 Relative Path Traversal
 CWE-36 Absolute Path Traversal
 CWE-59 Improper Link Resolution Before File Access ('Link Following')
 CWE-61 UNIX Symbolic Link (Symlink) Following
 CWE-65 Windows Hard Link
 CWE-200 Exposure of Sensitive Information to an Unauthorized Actor
 CWE-201 Exposure of Sensitive Information Through Sent Data
 CWE-219 Storage of File with Sensitive Data Under Web Root
 CWE-276 Incorrect Default Permissions
 CWE-281 Improper Preservation of Permissions
 CWE-282 Improper Ownership Management
 CWE-283 Unverified Ownership
 CWE-284 Improper Access Control
 CWE-285 Improper Authorization
 CWE-352 Cross-Site Request Forgery (CSRF)
 CWE-359 Exposure of Private Personal Information to an Unauthorized Actor
 CWE-377 Insecure Temporary File
 CWE-379 Creation of Temporary File in Directory with Insecure Permissions
 CWE-402 Transmission of Private Resources into a New Sphere ('Resource Leak')
 CWE-424 Improper Protection of Alternate Path
 CWE-425 Direct Request ('Forced Browsing')
 CWE-441 Unintended Proxy or Intermediary ('Confused Deputy')
 CWE-497 Exposure of Sensitive System Information to an Unauthorized Control Sphere
 CWE-538 Insertion of Sensitive Information into Externally-Accessible File or Directory
 CWE-540 Inclusion of Sensitive Information in Source Code
 CWE-548 Exposure of Information Through Directory Listing
 CWE-552 Files or Directories Accessible to External Parties
 CWE-566 Authorization Bypass Through User-Controlled SQL Primary Key
 CWE-601 URL Redirection to Untrusted Site ('Open Redirect')
 CWE-615 Inclusion of Sensitive Information in Source Code Comments
 CWE-639 Authorization Bypass Through User-Controlled Key
 CWE-668 Exposure of Resource to Wrong Sphere
 CWE-732 Incorrect Permission Assignment for Critical Resource
 CWE-749 Exposed Dangerous Method or Function
 CWE-862 Missing Authorization
 CWE-863 Incorrect Authorization
 CWE-918 Server-Side Request Forgery (SSRF)
 CWE-922 Insecure Storage of Sensitive Information
 CWE-1275 Sensitive Cookie with Improper SameSite Attribute